How do you feel
about doing things that you do well?
Have you ever noticed that people
who are experts at what they do
seem to enjoy the job, whatever it is,
and they delight in training others?
This is because the more people there are
who understand how to support a project,
make music, or play a game,
the more enjoyable it is
when we combine forces as a group,
a team, an orchestra.
There’s a direct correlation
between skill and joy.
So how do you feel
about the work of making disciples?
Turn with me, please,
to Luke chapter 10.
Jesus loved making disciples.
Psalm 40:8 says
prophetically concerning Jesus:
“To do your will,
O my God, is my delight.”
And notice here
that Luke 10:21 tells us
that when Jesus was contemplating the results
of a particular preaching campaign,
“he became overjoyed
[overjoyed] in the holy spirit.”
Jesus was a masterful teacher,
but as this chapter of the Bible shows,
he helped his disciples
to become skillful as well.
And thus, as pointed out
at Luke 10:17,
they also found joy in this work.
Our joy grows
as we work to improve our skills.
So this symposium
will discuss six essential skills
that can help us to become
not just more effective preachers
but effective disciple-makers.
What skills are required?
You see them listed on your program:
asking questions,
unleashing the power of God’s Word,
illustrating key points,
teaching with enthusiasm,
showing empathy,
and reaching the heart.
This symposium includes
a series of dramatizations
that follow the progress
of one Bible student.
After each video, we’ll discuss
the skill that was featured
and how we can use it.
This will help us to experience more joy
in our disciple-making work.
Are you ready?
Let’s discuss our first skill:
asking questions.
Why should we ask questions?
Questions serve a number of purposes.
Sometimes we pose them just to stimulate
interest and to get the conversation rolling.
At other times, we’re interested
in hearing how a person thinks
so that we can know better
how to direct the conversation.
Turn with me, please,
to Matthew chapter 22.
Jesus knew what was in man.
He could read hearts,
so he didn’t need people
to tell him where they
stood on certain issues.
Still, he used questions
to encourage his listeners
to reason things out for themselves.
Notice how he did that here
at Matthew 22:41-45:
“Now while the Pharisees
were gathered together, Jesus asked them:
“‘What do you think about the Christ?
“Whose son is he?’
“They said to him: ‘David’s.’
“He asked them: ‘How is it, then,
“‘that David under inspiration
calls him Lord,
“‘saying,
“Jehovah said to my Lord:
“‘Sit at my right hand until I put
your enemies beneath your feet”?
“‘If, then, David calls him Lord,
how is he his son?’”
Four questions.
Now, wouldn’t it have been easier
and quicker just to tell
people the answers?
Possibly, but those questions
led honesthearted ones to draw
accurate conclusions for themselves
while at the same time revealing
the true motives of opposers.
Questions are powerful.
But when we use them,
we should keep in mind
the words of James 1:19.
And notice what this says
—James 1:19:
“Know this, my beloved brothers:
“Everyone must be quick to listen,
slow to speak, slow to anger.”
To ask a question
without waiting for the answer
would be like making an appointment
to meet a friend
but then leaving before he arrived.
It was our question,
so we should wait for the answer.
Wait for it, not in a way
that makes people feel uncomfortable,
but by listening kindly.
By listening, we, in effect, say,
“You are important to me.”
Now, unlike Jesus, we don’t already know
what’s going on inside of people,
so it’s not until they
answer our question
that we can tailor our comments
to fit their situation.
In the following dramatization,
notice how a disciple-maker
uses questions skillfully.
The shower is free!
“We are sisters, we are brothers,
sons and daughters, and more.”
Yo!
Give me a truth.
I’m sorry, what?
Your sign says “Learn Bible Truths,”
so I assume
you’re here to share said truths.
So share one.
My name’s Neeta.
What’s yours?
Jade.
Like the stone?
No, like I’m jaded.
Are you going to share something,
or what?
Um, yeah.
Did you know the Bible says
you can live forever?
Heaven?
Is that what you’re sharing?
That’s not exactly new, is it?
No, I mean, did you know the Bible says
that you can live forever on earth?
But why would I want that?
This place is a mess.
But it won’t be in the future.
Revelation 21:4 promises:
“And he will wipe out
“every tear from their eyes,
and death will be no more,
“neither will mourning
nor outcry nor pain be anymore.
The former things have passed away.”
Since there’s no death
or pain in heaven,
where would this promise apply?
The earth.
I didn’t know the Bible said that.
Wicked!
I mean, that’s cool.
Oh, OK.
Would you like to learn
how to be part of that future?
Uh, yeah.
Uh, thanks.
Um, I’m not really
the churchy type, and I’m— I’m late.
So see you later.
Did you notice how Neeta
prefaced some of her questions?
“Did you know?
“Did you know the Bible
says you can live forever?
No, I mean did you know the Bible says
you can live forever on earth?”
—a thought-provoking question
to get the conversation started.
Now, maybe it’s been a little while since you
were able to stand in a public place
with a witnessing cart,
as we saw Neeta doing here,
but we can have conversations
on the phone,
perhaps in stores,
or in the park.
Questions also work well in letters.
Of course, it’s easy for us to think
of questions on topics that interest us,
but what is needed is to think of questions
that others will enjoy answering.
Such questions as:
“Did you know that the Bible describes
a time when sickness will be no more?
“Do you think we’ll ever see
true economic security?
“It would be nice to be able to plan.
“What do you think is a reliable source
of information about the future?
“Do you think we could be living
in what the Bible calls ‘the last days’?
“I’ve noticed that many people still pray,
especially when they have problems.
“Do you think anyone
listens to prayers?
Does God listen to all prayers?”
Viewpoint questions
—viewpoint questions invite people
to express their thoughts.
Often Jesus would pause,
ask people what they thought,
and then listen to their response.
For example, after the death
of Martha’s brother Lazarus,
Jesus told her
as recorded at John 11:25, 26:
“Everyone who is living and exercises faith
in me will never die at all.”
But then he asked her:
“Do you believe this?”
And then he listened
as she expressed her faith.
This type of question can be very effective
in our disciple-making work.
Or like Jesus,
we can use a series of questions
to help people reason.
In the video, did you notice
how after reading Revelation 21:4,
Neeta asked Jade,
“Since there’s no death or pain in heaven,
where would this promise apply?”
and then she asks,
“Would you like to learn
how to be a part of that future?”
We improve our skills
by imitating Jesus.
And as our skill improves,
our joy increases.
Jesus delighted to make disciples,
and we can too.
By asking questions
and then listening to people’s answers,
we may help some of them
to accept the good news
and we will definitely experience firsthand
the joy of disciple-making.
Brother Patrick LaFranca,
a helper to the Personnel Committee,
will now present
the next part of this symposium,
“Experience the Joy of Disciple-Making
—Improve Your Skills—
Unleashing the Power of God’s Word.”